# Initial analysis

## Project Introduction
This repository intends to document and present my predictive modelling project, coded using a mixture of C++ and Python.
Python will be used to fetch financial data and pack it into a JSON file that feeds the C++ predictive analysis engine.
For this project, I will vaguely follow the OCR A-level project mark scheme and project guidance as the iterative approach is what I am used to using and works well for most projects.
I will use a very compressed approach though for my documentation, as I want to showcase my programming skills, not my essay-writing skills. To add to this, I will omit some sections that would have originally been compulsory in the project, for example an extensive breakdown of existing designs and stakeholder analysis, due to this project being unlikely to be used by consumers and also to get the project done in good time.
This project is one of 3 passion projects intended to develop my full stack skills via programming languages such as HTML, CSS, Javascript, Python and C++.

## Essential Ideas
As taught in my A-level Computer Science course, I will identify some essential ideas before doing anything else.
This will help me visualise the program as a whole in my head, and this clearer picture will aid in developing each module of the program as I will be able to consider preconditions, inputs and outputs beforehand.
This section will be split into 2 sections: one for the frontend and one for the backend.

### Fetching Financial Data
* Fetch current and accurate financial data
* Pack stock data into a JSON file to serve the C++ modelling engine
* Efficient algorithms - attempt to reduce time and space complexity as much as possible
* Simple GUI using Python

### Predictive Analysis Engine
* High order autoregressive model
* See [financial-models-research.md](financial-models-research.md) for more information
* C++ implementation

## Limitations
I will now identify some limitations I may have/face. This is done in order to draw boundaries and prevent project-ending scope creep.
I only really have the one, however it is a big point that is very worth mentioning
* Expertise - the data scraping, Python side of the project will be fairly simple for me but I have had to research complex mathematical and statistical topics and I will also need to implement it in C++ which I have never really used before

## Preliminary research to inform success criteria
I will now look at some modules in brief to help plan out my success criteria. I will carry this out in the analysis stage as I don't want to walk into a project with my success criteria underdeveloped.

### yfinance
yfinance is a python module that I will use to build my backend: fetching market data and ticker requests.
yfinance.ticker - will allow me to fetch information about a singular stock. I will use the following for ticker:
```python
ticker.history(period="5d", interval="1d") # fetch the history of a ticker in the given time range
```

### Pandas
Pandas is a fast, open-source data manipulation python module that I will use to build up my backend via formatting the yfinance data into a useable format for the frontend.
```python
closing_prices = df["close"] # slice a list to get values for one column
df = df.reset_index() # convert yfinance data to sliceable, pandas-compatible data
df["dailyReturn"] = df["close"].pct_change() # add another column of daily return based off changes in closing prices
jsonData = df.to_json(orient="records", date_format="iso") # convert data to json for the frontend
```

## Success Criteria
I will now define my success criteria, which will ensure that I stay on track and to the point, so that I avoid adding features that I don't need to.

### Python
1. yfinance module fetches stock history
2. pandas generates daily return
3. pack into json file to send to frontend

### UI
1. Search bar to allow user to search for different stocks
2. Allow user to configure lag order for AR model
3. Graph view to allow user to see results

### C++
1. Read JSON file generated by python file
2. Transform JSON contents into native C++ `std::vector`
3. Transform data into autocorrelation and target matrices based on lag order
4. Implement a matrix inversion algorithm
5. Use inversion algorithm to solve OLS equation and calculate $\Phi$
6. Calculate a definitive prediction for the next 5 days
7. Optimise execution speeds to keep algorithm execution time under 50ms
8. Implement error handling for exceptions such as singular matrix inversion

## Final Note
With that, initial analysis is done. I will now move onto the design section, which can be found in the same folder as this.
